   
 
   
 
Media Release  Munich  
16 October  2025  
 
 “In an increasingly uncertain environment, 
Munich Re will continue to play its stabili sing 
role. Be it on climate -related perils, or effects of 
the geopolitical and macroeconomic instability, 
we will stand by our clients and provide them 
with the strong and sustainable support they 
need.”  
 Clarisse Kopff , Munich Re Board of Management  
 
Munich Re – a stabili sing force  in times of rising  uncertainties  
In a world which is constantly heating up, literally and in a geopolitical sense, Europe is 
affected in its own special ways. With the last eleven  years being the warmest on record so 
far, the risk of droughts is increasing just as much as the danger of flash floods and 
hailstorms. This, and the  ever increasing  value concentration as well as continued elevated 
inflatio n pushes the demand for reinsurance up. The variety of market and client situations 
call for a differentiated approach . Munich  Re will continue to support clients in growing the 
insurable market and help them navigate new complexities in international exposures.  
 
Natural perils, geopolitical tensions, and global 
loss trends: Reinsurance demand strong in 
Europe – Munich Re offers consistent support  
▪ Munich Re predicts continued high reinsurance demand and continues to 
show unwavering commitment in challenging market environments  
▪ Risk sharing between insurers and reinsurers to remain balanced  
▪ Increasing threats and awareness in cyber expected to unlock insurance 
market potential  Media Release  Munich, 16 October  2025  page  2/4 
   
 
Clarisse Kopff, member of Munich Re's Board of Management responsible for Europe and 
Latin America: “In an increasingly uncertain environment, Munich Re will continue to play its 
stabili sing role. Be it on climate -related perils, or effects of the geopolitical and 
macroeconomic instability, we will stand by our clients and provide them  with the strong and 
sustainable support they need .” 
 
How exposed  Europe actually is from a Nat Cat perspective is demonstrated almost year by 
year. For example, t he 2021 Ahrtal flood in Germany  caused insured losses of €10.9 bn, 
while the major Kahramanmaraş  earthquake in T urkey  in 2023 caused €5.5 bn in insured 
losses . Both have been the biggest loss -events so far for both countries. Since 2020  Munich 
Re has continuously raised its NatCat net exposure by an annual 27% for the loss scenario 
Flood Germany and by an annual 10% for the loss scenario Earthquake Turkey.      
 
Claudia Strametz, who leads Munich Re's business for Germany and who is responsible for 
cyber business in Europe, says: “Even in challenging market environments following 
significant loss events, Munich Re continues to show unwavering commitment to its clients, 
helping them manage their results and deploying or even increasing capacity for the affected 
markets.  This is possible thanks to our strong capital position and the best geographical 
diversification in the industry. ”  
 
Heterogeneous European market s and client demands  call for a 
differentiated approach  
Lines of business and markets vary in their inherent characteristics. They obey to different 
supply and demand dynamics. And clients themselves ea ch have their own buying 
motivations and behaviour. This all prompts differentiated answers and solutions.   
 
“At Munich Re we listen, understand and come up with bespoke solutions to appropriately 
address the individual reinsurance requirements of clients in their specific markets. Our 
strong historical local presence and deep market -specific underwriting knowled ge help us 
do that”, Kopff says.   
 
Munich Re’s business is underpinned by long-lasting client relationships which provide not 
only mutual performance stability for both parties. They have been and will remain the 
backbone for growth, be it in traditional, still developing or emerging lines of business. “We 
believe that by working together with our clients we can be more effective in narrowing the 
protection gap ”, Kopff says. 
 
The vast majority of cyber risks is currently not insured  
Cybercrime is estimated to cause economic damage amounting to roughly US$10 tn 
worldwide. Small and medium sized enterprises still underestimate the existential threats of 
a hacker attack. The sizeable cyber insurance protection gap can directly impact individuals Media Release  Munich, 16 October  2025  page  3/4 
   
 
and businesses. Closing this protection gap and strengthening cyber resilience is therefore 
not just a strategic imperative for the insurance industry   ̶  it is a critical societal responsibility.  
 
Claudia Strametz: “Over the past 10 to 15 years, cyber insurance has experienced 
remarkable growth, evolving from a virtually non-existent  product to a global market with 
approximately €15 bn in premiums today. Munich Re has been at the forefront of this 
development. Despite this progress, less than 5% and possibly as little as 1% of cyber risks 
are currently insured, and cyber insurance still only accounts for less than 1% of the total 
proper ty and casualty (P&C) insurance market. ”  
 
Munich Re continuously enhances its expertise by investing in advanced modelling  
capabilities and speciali sed cyber teams. The commitment to building cyber resilience is 
demonstrated through active collaboration across the industry. These efforts are designed 
to lay the groundwork for sustainable market growth and for a robust and future -ready cyber 
insurance market.  
   
Navigating new complexities in international exposures of European 
program mes  
Munich Re sees a risk that some exposures are underestimated in international liability 
program mes. For example, European companies can be subject  to US litigation even if they 
have no big subsidiary in the US. Transparency and specialization to underwrite US 
exposures paired with in -depth experience of handling US claims  will be key for navigating 
this landscape successfully.  
 
Clarisse Kopff: “In ever more complex and riskier times , we provide large  and reliable 
capacity,  and we bring our expertise to the clients to enable mutual profitable growth and 
avoid surprises. We will adapt to the variety of markets and client situations,  and we  will 
differentiate our approaches, whilst continuing to look for a good balance of risks between 
our clients and us.”  
 
Münchener Rückversicherungs -Gesellschaft  
Aktiengesellschaft in München  
Group Media Relations  
Königinstrasse 107, 80802 Munich, Germany  
 
www.munichre.com  
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/munich -re 
 
 
For Media inquiries please contact  
 
Group Media Relations  
Stefan Straub  
Tel.: +49 89 3891 9896  
Mobile: +49 151 64 93 30 48  
sstraub@munichre.com  Financial Communications  
Axel Rakette  
Tel.: +49 89 3891 3141  
Mobile: +49 151 20 46 21 32  
arakette@munichre.com  Group Media Relations  
Andreas Klein  
Tel.: +49 89 3891 6111  
Mobile: +49 151 54 25 44 1 6 
anklein @munichre.com  Media Release  Munich, 16 October  2025  page  4/4 
   
 
 
Media Relations Asia -Pacific  
Faith Thoms  
Tel.: +65 63180762  
Mobile: +65 83390125  
fthoms@munichre.com  
 Media Relations North America  
Ashleigh Lockhart  
Tel.: +1 609 275 2110  
Mobile: +1 980 395 2979  
alockhart@munichre.com  Media Relations London Market  
Lillian Ng  
Tel.: +44 207 8863952  
Mobile: +44 7809 495299  
lillianng@munichre.com  
 
Munich Re  
 
Munich Re is one of the world’s leading providers of reinsurance, primary insurance and insurance -related risk solutions. The 
Group consists of the reinsurance and ERGO fields of business, and the asset manager MEAG. Munich Re is globally active 
and operat es in all lines of the insurance business. Since it was founded in 1880, Munich Re has been known for its unrivalled 
risk-related expertise and its sound financial position. Munich Re leverages its strengths to promote its clients’ business 
interests and t echnological progress. Moreover, Munich Re develops covers for new risks such as rocket launches, renewable 
energies, cyber risks and artificial intelligence. In the 2024 financial year, Munich Re generated insurance revenue of €60.8 bn 
and a net result of €5.7bn. The Munich Re Group employed about 44,000 people worldwide as at 31  December 2024.  
 
Disclaimer  
 
This media release contains forward -looking statements that are based on current assumptions and forecasts of the 
management of Munich Re. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences 
between the forward -looki ng statements given here and the actual development of our Company – in particular the results, 
financial situation and performance. The Group assumes no liability to update these forward -looking statements or to make  
them conform to future events or devel opments.  
 
 
 